
Intro

Hello, I am Shubhendu Sinha. I was born and raised in Pune, India. I came to Eindhoven, Netherlands in 2009 to pursue my Masters in Embedded Systems. After completing my Masters studies, I continued working in Eindhoven. Currently I am working as a Software Architect at ASML.

Apart from the programming of computers, the programming of the human mind and body has been of great interest to me. I am a keen student and practitioner of Yoga and Yogic Meditation.
I am also a yoga instructor. The class material and resources for my yoga class can be found [[here]]

Yoga 

Yoga class

I am a student of Ananda Marga yoga. My guru is Shrii Shrii Anandamurtii.
Ananda Marga is a global spiritual and social service organization founded in 1955 by Shrii Shrii Anandamurti (Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar). The mission of Ananda Marga is two-fold. 
1. Self-realization (individual emancipation) and
2. Service to humanity (collective welfare): the fulfillment of the physical, mental and spiritual needs of all people.
My father was a yoga teacher in Ananda Marga for over 25 years. I learned yoga from him. Eager to share my knowledge I take yoga classes in Eindhoven.

The exercises and postures, that the world calls "Yoga" are actually just a small part of the Yoga. Yoga is an ancient spiritual philosophy that began thousands of years ago. The physical exercises and postures that we commonly call "Yoga" are called asana - english plural asanas (literally means postures  in Sanskrit). 

Asanas differ from traditional physical exercises, in that they mainly affect the endocrine glands and nerves in the human body. Endocrine glands are those glands in the human body that secrete hormones which regulate different functionalities of the human body. Asanas help balance the hormone secretions from the glands, which in turn makes one healthier physically and mentally. 

The book source for my yoga class is based on the book "Yoga for health". Unfortunately not many copies are available on amazon or elsewhere. If you wish to get this book, do contact me.

My presentation that summarizes WHY, WHAT and HOW of yoga can be downloaded below.
Ananda Marga Yoga by ShubhenduSinha on Scribd

https://www.scribd.com/document/463886662/Ananda-Marga-Yoga#from_embed

Kaoshiki

Kaoshiki - a yogic dance/exercise
The name Kaoshikii comes from the Sanskrit word kosa, meaning “layer of mind”.
It is yogic exercise cum dance that was invented by guru Shrii Shrii Anandamurtii.
A lot of information is provided on the anandamarga website here. 
This is what is said on the ananda marga website:

"Kaoshikii develops the subtler layers of mind, cultivating the feeling of mysticism – the endeavour to establish a link between the finite and the infinite – in one’s consciousness. It instills self-confidence and encourages self-expression. It is a total body exercise, and a medicine in itself. It prolongs the lifespan, keeping the body youthful, strengthens the leg joints, increases flexibility and endurance, prevents and cures disease (including many types of liver diseases) and eases the pain of menstruation and childbirth, enabling easy delivery. Although kaoshikii is for both women and men, it is particularly beneficial for women."

Kaoshiki is a great yogic exercise. As you may read on the website Kaoshiki provides a lot of benefits. Personally in my own experience I can definitely say that it
* lightens up the body immediately
* solves back pain
* does not take too long
* and easy to practice anywhere
Hence for me, if I dont get time to practice yoga, then I will ensure that I do kaoshiki for at least 5 mins. It is not a substitute for yoga asanas, but it is something that gives great benefits and does not require a lot of investment.

Owing to the simplicity and great benefits of kaoshiki, it has become popular worldwide. Check the following video to see for yourself.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pVPua3_13o0

If you just search for "Kaoshiki" on YouTube you will find many videos and tutorials. The following two tutorials are very good.
In the first video Didi(sister) Kusum explains the steps in detailed instructions. The the second video, few ananda marga students from Vietnam perform "kaoshiki" very elegantly in rhythm.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuSMiU_hRjc
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uBhNA-lNtu8 


